AI #1016: Create github guide document (#1088)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: guidelines/github-guidelines.md

# GitHub Guidelines

Guidelines, recommendations, and instructions for how to work with FOCUS on GitHub, using tools like a web browser, GitHub Desktop, and VSCode.

## Table of Contents

1. [FOCUS Repository Structure Overview](#focus-repository-structure-overview)
2. [Logging into GitHub](#logging-into-github)
3. [Configuring Notifications](#configuring-notifications)
4. [Installing GitHub Desktop](#installing-github-desktop)
5. [Installing Visual Studio Code](#installing-visual-studio-code)

> 6. [How to Interact (review, comment, participate in, etc.) with an Issue via Web Browser](#how-to-interact-review-comment-participate-in-etc-with-an-issue-via-web-browser)
> 7. [Cloning a Repository with GitHub Desktop](#cloning-a-repository-with-github-desktop)
> 8. [How to submit a Pull Request (PR) using GitHub Desktop and VSCode](#how-to-submit-a-pull-request-pr-using-github-desktop-and-vscode)
> 9. [How to submit changes to an existing PR using GitHub desktop and VS Code](#how-to-submit-changes-to-an-existing-pr-using-github-desktop-and-vscode)
> 10. [How to Interact (review, comment, participate in, etc.) with a Pull Request via Web Browser](#how-to-interact-review-comment-participate-in-etc-with-a-pull-request-via-web-browser)

Reviewer: Recommend changing these to verbs to be aligned with the verbs in the other bullets.

If you agree, the anchors and headers need to be changed as well.

```suggestion
6. [Interacting with (e.g., review, comment, participate in) an Issue via Web Browser](#how-to-interact-review-comment-participate-in-etc-with-an-issue-via-web-browser)
7. [Cloning a Repository with GitHub Desktop](#cloning-a-repository-with-github-desktop)
8. [Submitting a Pull Request (PR) using GitHub Desktop and VSCode](#how-to-submit-a-pull-request-pr-using-github-desktop-and-vscode)
9. [Submitting changes to an existing PR using GitHub desktop and VS Code](#how-to-submit-changes-to-an-existing-pr-using-github-desktop-and-vscode)
10. [Interacting with (e.g., review, comment, participate in) a PR via Web Browser](#how-to-interact-review-comment-participate-in-etc-with-a-pull-request-via-web-browser)
```

### 1. `.github` folder

This is a standard GitHub directory that contains GitHub-specific configuration files and templates. Typically found at .github/workflows/ for GitHub Actions, .github/linters/ for linter configuration files.

A typical FOCUS contributor will not spend much time interacting with this folder, and thus it can be safely ignored.

### 2. `custom_linter_rules` folder

This directory contains custom linting rules specific to the FOCUS specification project. Linting rules help maintain code quality, ensure consistency in documentation, and establish coding best practices.

A typical FOCUS contributor will not spend much time interacting with this folder, and thus it can be safely ignored.

### 3. `guidelines` folder

This folder contains various guidelines on development, editorial, normative requirements, specification change, and specification design.

### 4. `specification` folder

The core folder containing the specification documentation:

- **`overview.md`** - Contains the main specification overview, principles, and requirements
- **`glossary.md`** - Comprehensive glossary of terms and definitions used throughout the specification

> - **`columns/` subfolder** - Contains detailed documentation for individual FOCUS columns like `servicesubcategory.md`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`columns` subfolder** - Contains detailed documentation for individual FOCUS columns like `servicesubcategory.md`
```

# GitHub Guidelines

Guidelines, recommendations, and instructions for how to work with FOCUS on GitHub, using tools like a web browser, GitHub Desktop, and VSCode.

> ## Table of Contents

Reviewer: The links in the TOC don't work for me.  User error, or formatting issue?

Author: When I go to "View File" I am able to click around successfully, try that.

Reviewer: Great, that looks good!  Leaving this comment unresolved for now, so anyone else having the same issue I did can follow Larry's instructions -- but we can resolve before approval.

8. [How to submit a Pull Request (PR) using GitHub Desktop and VSCode](#how-to-submit-a-pull-request-pr-using-github-desktop-and-vscode)
9. [How to submit changes to an an existing PR using GitHub desktop and vscode](#how-to-submit-changes-to-an-an-existing-pr-using-github-desktop-and-vscode)
10. [Tips for Success](#tips-for-success)

---

## FOCUS Repository Structure Overview

## General Overview of FOCUS_Spec Repository

The [FOCUS_Spec repository](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec) contains the FinOps Open Cost and Usage Specification (FOCUS), which is a community-driven effort to develop a standard schema for cloud, SaaS, and other billing data. The primary goal of the FOCUS specification is to make it easier to understand, report on, and manage cloud costs.

## Repository Purpose

FOCUS is designed to address the complexity that FinOps practitioners face when dealing with disparate billing data formats from different cloud, software, and other providers. Without a standard, each provider generates unique billing data files with their own terminology, forcing practitioners to develop custom normalization schemes for each provider.

> ## Main Folders and Their Contents

Reviewer: Would be good to describe what's in `.github`, `custom_linter_rules`, and `vendored`, even though folks won't need to bother with those 99% of the time.

Author: Sections added, please review.

Reviewer: A good start, but it should read alphabetically, the same way the folders are laid out in the `Code` view.

  - .github
  - custom_linter_rules
  - guidelines
  - specification
  - supporting_content
  - vendored

Either that or adding a new header section with subsections, like:

- Spec folders
  - specification
  - supporting_content
- Other folders
  - .github
  - custom_linter_rules
  - guidelines
  - vendored

I'm open to either of those paths.

Author: @shawnalpay Good idea - updated, please review changes

Reviewer: Looks good!  Resolving.  Added a few more comments to make clear to a user which folders don't really matter day to day.  Feel free to change the language.

> ### 1. `specification/` folder

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. `specification` folder
```

The core folder containing the specification documentation:

- **`overview.md`** - Contains the main specification overview, principles, and requirements
- **`glossary.md`** - Comprehensive glossary of terms and definitions used throughout the specification
- **`columns/` subfolder** - Contains detailed documentation for individual FOCUS columns like `servicesubcategory.md`

### 2. `supporting_content` folder

The repository provides supporting content that includes example mappings between well-known provider datasets and what's defined in the FOCUS specification. This likely includes mappings for major cloud providers like:

- AWS (Amazon Web Services)
- GCP (Google Cloud Platform)
- Azure (Microsoft)
- Oracle Cloud

### 3. `guidelines` folder

This folder contains various guidelines on development, editorial, normative requirements, specification change, and specification design.

> 

Author: ### 4. `custom_linter_rules` folder

This directory contains custom linting rules specific to the FOCUS specification project.  Linting rules help maintain code quality, ensure consistency in documentation, and establish coding best practices.

### 5. `.github` folder

This is a standard GitHub directory that contains GitHub-specific configuration files and templates. Typically found at .github/workflows/ for GitHub Actions, .github/linters/ for linter configuration files.

### 6. `vendored` folder

This directory contains third-party dependencies or external libraries that are directly included in the repository rather than being downloaded at build time.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
4. custom_linter_rules folder
This directory contains custom linting rules specific to the FOCUS specification project. Linting rules help maintain code quality, ensure consistency in documentation, and establish coding best practices.

5. .github folder
This is a standard GitHub directory that contains GitHub-specific configuration files and templates. Typically found at .github/workflows/ for GitHub Actions, .github/linters/ for linter configuration files.

6. vendored folder
This directory contains third-party dependencies or external libraries that are directly included in the repository rather than being downloaded at build time.

```

> ### 4. Documentation Structure

Author: ```suggestion
### 7. Documentation Structure
```

# GitHub Guidelines

Guidelines, recommendations, and instructions for how to work with FOCUS on GitHub, using tools like a web browser, GitHub Desktop, and VSCode.

## Table of Contents

1. [FOCUS Repository Structure Overview](#focus-repository-structure-overview)
2. [Logging into GitHub](#logging-into-github)
3. [Configuring Notifications](#configuring-notifications)
4. [Installing GitHub Desktop](#installing-github-desktop)
5. [Installing Visual Studio Code](#installing-visual-studio-code)
6. [How to Interact (review, comment, participate in, etc.) with an Issue via Web Browser](#how-to-interact-review-comment-participate-in-etc-with-an-issue-via-web-browser)
7. [Cloning a Repository with GitHub Desktop](#cloning-a-repository-with-github-desktop)
8. [How to submit a Pull Request (PR) using GitHub Desktop and VSCode](#how-to-submit-a-pull-request-pr-using-github-desktop-and-vscode)
9. [How to submit changes to an an existing PR using GitHub desktop and vscode](#how-to-submit-changes-to-an-an-existing-pr-using-github-desktop-and-vscode)
10. [Tips for Success](#tips-for-success)

---

> ## FOCUS Repository Structure Overview

Reviewer 2: @ljadvey. For completeness, this section should also mention two important documents: RELEASE_PLANNING.md and CONTRIBUTING.md. What do you think?

Author: @jpradocueva good idea - added these below, line 67

## Main Folders and Their Contents

### 1. `specification` folder

The core folder containing the specification documentation:

- **`overview.md`** - Contains the main specification overview, principles, and requirements
- **`glossary.md`** - Comprehensive glossary of terms and definitions used throughout the specification
- **`columns/` subfolder** - Contains detailed documentation for individual FOCUS columns like `servicesubcategory.md`

### 2. `supporting_content` folder

The repository provides supporting content that includes example mappings between well-known provider datasets and what's defined in the FOCUS specification. This likely includes mappings for major cloud providers like:

- AWS (Amazon Web Services)
- GCP (Google Cloud Platform)
- Azure (Microsoft)
- Oracle Cloud

### 3. `guidelines` folder

This folder contains various guidelines on development, editorial, normative requirements, specification change, and specification design.

> 4. custom_linter_rules folder

Author: ```suggestion
### 4. `custom_linter_rules` folder ###
```

This directory contains custom linting rules specific to the FOCUS specification project. Linting rules help maintain code quality, ensure consistency in documentation, and establish coding best practices.

> 5. .github folder

Author: ```suggestion
### 5. `.github` folder ###
```

This is a standard GitHub directory that contains GitHub-specific configuration files and templates. Typically found at .github/workflows/ for GitHub Actions, .github/linters/ for linter configuration files.

> 6. vendored folder

Author: ```suggestion
### 6. `vendored` folder ###
```

This directory contains third-party dependencies or external libraries that are directly included in the repository rather than being downloaded at build time.

### 7. Documentation Structure

The repository follows standard documentation patterns with:

- **`README.md`** - Main repository documentation
- **`CHANGELOG.md`** - Version changes and updates

> - Various markdown files for specification details

Author: ```suggestion
- **`CONTRIBUTING.md`** - Overviews development environment for FOCUS specification.
- ** `RELEASE-PLANNING.md`** - Outlines release planning and schedule information for FOCUS.
- Various markdown files for specification details
```

### Incremental Development

- Incremental iterations released regularly to provide higher value to practitioners
- Allow feedback as the specification develops
- The specification is expected to evolve over time

### Provider Neutrality

- Contributors must ensure the specification examines how each decision relates to each of the major cloud, SaaS, and other providers
- Does not favor any single provider's implementation
- Prioritizes enabling FinOps capabilities and alignment with the FinOps Framework

## Target Audience

The specification is designed to be used by three major groups:

1. **Billing Data Generators** - Cloud, SaaS, and other infrastructure and service providers that bill based on consumption.
2. **FinOps Practitioners** - Professionals who analyze and manage cloud costs.
3. **FinOps Tool Vendors** - Companies that provide tools and platforms for cloud cost management.

## Repository Status

The repository is actively maintained and represents a collaborative effort between:

- FinOps practitioners
- Cloud and SaaS providers
- FinOps vendors
- The FinOps Foundation (supporting organization)
- Linux Foundation (hosting the specification project)

> The repository appears to be well-structured for both specification development and practical implementation, supporting the goal of creating a vendor-neutral standard for cloud billing data that can be adopted across different cloud providers and FinOps tools.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The repository is well-structured for both specification development and practical implementation, supporting the goal of creating a vendor-neutral standard for cloud billing data that can be adopted across different cloud providers and FinOps tools.
```

### Working with GitHub Features in VSCode

**Pull Requests:**

See [Working with Pull Requests](#working-with-pull-requests) for more details.

1. With the **GitHub Pull Requests and Issues** extension installed
2. Click the **GitHub** icon in the sidebar
3. View and manage pull requests directly from VSCode
4. Review code, leave comments, and merge pull requests

**Issues:**

See [How to Interact (review, comment, participate in, etc.) with an Issue via Web Browser](#how-to-interact-review-comment-participate-in-etc-with-an-issue-via-web-browser) for more details.

1. Access GitHub issues from the same GitHub panel
2. Create new issues or work on existing ones
3. Link commits to issues using keywords like "fixes #123"

**Code Reviews:**

See [Reviewing and Commenting on GitHub Issues](#reviewing-and-commenting-on-github-issues) for more details.

1. Open a pull request in the GitHub panel
2. Review changes with inline comments
3. Suggest changes directly in the editor
4. Approve or request changes

---

## How to Interact (review, comment, participate in, etc.) with an Issue via Web Browser

## Reviewing and Commenting on GitHub Issues

> GitHub Issues are a powerful way to track bugs, feature requests, tasks, and other project-related discussions. Learning how to effectively review and comment on issues is essential for contributing to open source projects and collaborating with teams.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GitHub Issues are a powerful way to track bugs, feature requests, tasks, and other project-related discussions. Learning how to effectively review and comment on issues is essential for contributing to open source projects and collaborating with teams.
```
```suggestion
GitHub Issues are a powerful way to track bugs, feature requests, tasks, and other project-related discussions. Learning how to effectively review and comment on issues is essential for contributing to open standards projects and collaborating with teams.
```

> GitHub Issues are a powerful way to track bugs, feature requests, tasks, and other project-related discussions. Learning how to effectively review and comment on issues is essential for contributing to open source projects and collaborating with teams.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GitHub Issues are a powerful way to track bugs, feature requests, tasks, and other project-related discussions. Learning how to effectively review and comment on issues is essential for contributing to open standard projects and collaborating with teams.
```

2. Click the **Issues** tab near the top of the repository page
3. You'll see a list of open issues by default

**Filtering Issues:**

- **Open/Closed:** Toggle between open and closed issues
- **Labels:** Filter by specific labels (bug, enhancement, etc.)
- **Assignee:** Filter by who's assigned to work on issues
- **Milestone:** Filter by project milestone
- **Author:** Filter by who created the issue
- **Sort:** By newest, oldest, most commented, recently updated, etc.

**Search Issues:**

1. Use the search bar at the top of the issues list
2. Search by keywords, labels, or advanced queries
3. Example searches:
   - `is:issue state:open` - Open issues
   - `is:issue state:open type:Feature` - All open features
   - `is:issue state:open label:1.3` - Issues for version 1.3
   - `author:username` - Issues created by specific user
   - `assignee:username` - Issues assigned to specific user

### How to Submit an Issue

Issues are tickets in GitHub and are used to organize various request within FOCUS.

1. Go to https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/issues
2. Click `New Issue` (upper right)

> 3. Select the type of Issue that best describes your goal

Reviewer 2: The bullet points with the list of issues appear all inline rather than as an ordered bullet point list.

Author: @jpradocueva check now please

- **Steps to reproduce** (for bugs)
- **Expected vs. actual behavior**
- **Environment details** (OS, browser, version numbers)
- **Screenshots or code examples**
- **Previous attempts at solutions**
- **Project maintainer responses**

### Writing Effective Comments

**Comment Structure:**

1. **Quote relevant parts** of previous comments if responding to specific points
2. **Provide context** for your comment
3. **Be specific and actionable**
4. **Use formatting** to make your comment readable

### Best Practices for Issue Comments

**Do:**

- **Be respectful and professional** in all interactions
- **Stay on topic** and relevant to the issue
- **Provide concrete examples** with code, screenshots, or logs
- **Update your comments** if you find additional information
- **Thank contributors** for their time and effort
- **Test suggestions** before recommending them
- **Link to relevant resources** like documentation or related issues

**Don't:**

- **Spam with "+1" comments** - use the thumbs up reaction instead
- **Ask "when will this be fixed?"** - maintainers work on volunteer time
- **Hijack issues** with unrelated problems - create a new issue instead

> - **Be demanding or impatient** - open source is collaborative, not customer service

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Be demanding or impatient** - Open Standards are collaborative, not customer service
```

- GCP (Google Cloud Platform)
- Azure (Microsoft)
- Oracle Cloud

### 3. `guidelines` folder

This folder contains various guidelines on development, editorial, normative requirements, specification change, and specification design.
### 4. `custom_linter_rules` folder ###
This directory contains custom linting rules specific to the FOCUS specification project. Linting rules help maintain code quality, ensure consistency in documentation, and establish coding best practices.

### 5. `.github` folder ###
This is a standard GitHub directory that contains GitHub-specific configuration files and templates. Typically found at .github/workflows/ for GitHub Actions, .github/linters/ for linter configuration files.

### 6. `vendored` folder ###
This directory contains third-party dependencies or external libraries that are directly included in the repository rather than being downloaded at build time.

### 7. Documentation Structure

The repository follows standard documentation patterns with:

- **`README.md`** - Main repository documentation
- **`CHANGELOG.md`** - Version changes and updates
- **`CONTRIBUTING.md`** - Overviews development environment for FOCUS specification.

> - ** `RELEASE-PLANNING.md`** - Outlines release planning and schedule information for FOCUS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`RELEASE-PLANNING.md`** - Outlines release planning and schedule information for FOCUS.
```

9. [How to submit changes to an existing PR using GitHub desktop and VS Code](#how-to-submit-changes-to-an-existing-pr-using-github-desktop-and-vscode)
10. [Tips for Success](#tips-for-success)

---

## FOCUS Repository Structure Overview

## General Overview of FOCUS_Spec Repository

The [FOCUS_Spec repository](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec) contains the FinOps Open Cost and Usage Specification (FOCUS), which is a community-driven effort to develop a standard schema for cloud, SaaS, and other billing data. The primary goal of the FOCUS specification is to make it easier to understand, report on, and manage cloud costs.

## Repository Purpose

FOCUS is designed to address the complexity that FinOps practitioners face when dealing with disparate billing data formats from different cloud, software, and other providers. Without a standard, each provider generates unique billing data files with their terminology, forcing practitioners to develop custom normalization schemes for each provider.

## Main Folders and Their Contents

### 1. `.github` folder

> This is a standard GitHub directory that contains GitHub-specific configuration files and templates. Typically found at .github/workflows/ for GitHub Actions, .github/linters/ for linter configuration files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a standard GitHub directory that contains GitHub-specific configuration files and templates. Typically found at .github/workflows/ for GitHub Actions, .github/linters/ for linter configuration files.

A typical FOCUS contributor will not spend much time interacting with this folder, and thus it can be safely ignored.
```

### 2. `custom_linter_rules` folder

> This directory contains custom linting rules specific to the FOCUS specification project. Linting rules help maintain code quality, ensure consistency in documentation, and establish coding best practices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This directory contains custom linting rules specific to the FOCUS specification project. Linting rules help maintain code quality, ensure consistency in documentation, and establish coding best practices.

A typical FOCUS contributor will not spend much time interacting with this folder, and thus it can be safely ignored.
```

### 3. `guidelines` folder

This folder contains various guidelines on development, editorial, normative requirements, specification change, and specification design.

### 4. `specification` folder

The core folder containing the specification documentation:

- **`overview.md`** - Contains the main specification overview, principles, and requirements
- **`glossary.md`** - Comprehensive glossary of terms and definitions used throughout the specification
- **`columns/` subfolder** - Contains detailed documentation for individual FOCUS columns like `servicesubcategory.md`

### 5. `supporting_content` folder

The repository provides supporting content that includes example mappings between well-known provider datasets and what's defined in the FOCUS specification. This likely includes mappings for major cloud providers like:

- AWS (Amazon Web Services)
- GCP (Google Cloud Platform)
- Azure (Microsoft)
- Oracle Cloud

### 6. `vendored` folder

> This directory contains third-party dependencies or external libraries that are directly included in the repository rather than being downloaded at build time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This directory contains third-party dependencies or external libraries that are directly included in the repository rather than being downloaded at build time.

A typical FOCUS contributor will not spend much time interacting with this folder, and thus it can be safely ignored.
```

10. [Tips for Success](#tips-for-success)

---

## FOCUS Repository Structure Overview

## General Overview of FOCUS_Spec Repository

The [FOCUS_Spec repository](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec) contains the FinOps Open Cost and Usage Specification (FOCUS), which is a community-driven effort to develop a standard schema for cloud, SaaS, and other billing data. The primary goal of the FOCUS specification is to make it easier to understand, report on, and manage cloud costs.

## Repository Purpose

FOCUS is designed to address the complexity that FinOps practitioners face when dealing with disparate billing data formats from different cloud, software, and other providers. Without a standard, each provider generates unique billing data files with their terminology, forcing practitioners to develop custom normalization schemes for each provider.

## Main Folders and Their Contents

### 1. `.github` folder

This is a standard GitHub directory that contains GitHub-specific configuration files and templates. Typically found at .github/workflows/ for GitHub Actions, .github/linters/ for linter configuration files.

> A typical FOCUS contributor will not spend much time interacting with this folder, and thus it can be safely ignored.
> 
> A typical FOCUS contributor will not spend much time interacting with this folder, and thus it can be safely ignored.

Reviewer: Something strange happened here when you accepted my suggestion... it added two separate lines.
```suggestion
A typical FOCUS contributor will not spend much time interacting with this folder, and thus it can be safely ignored.
```

### 2. `custom_linter_rules` folder

This directory contains custom linting rules specific to the FOCUS specification project. Linting rules help maintain code quality, ensure consistency in documentation, and establish coding best practices.

A typical FOCUS contributor will not spend much time interacting with this folder, and thus it can be safely ignored.

> A typical FOCUS contributor will not spend much time interacting with this folder, and thus it can be safely ignored.

Reviewer: Something strange happened here when you accepted my suggestion... it added two separate lines.
```suggestion
A typical FOCUS contributor will not spend much time interacting with this folder, and thus it can be safely ignored.
```

### Finding the Pull Request

1. Navigate to the [FOCUS repository](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pulls) on GitHub
2. Click the "Pull requests" tab
3. Click on the specific PR you want to comment on

### Making General Comments

**To add a general comment:**

1. Scroll to the bottom of the PR conversation page
2. In the "Write" tab of the comment box, type your comment
3. Use the "Preview" tab to see how your comment will look
4. Click "Comment" to submit

**Comment formatting options:**

- Use Markdown for formatting (bold, italic, code blocks, etc.)
- Add emoji reactions using `:emoji_name:` syntax
- Tag people using `@username`
- Reference issues with `#issue_number`

### Making Line-Specific Comments

**To comment on specific code lines:**

1. Click the "Files changed" tab
2. Hover over the line number you want to comment on
3. Click the blue "+" icon that appears
4. Type your comment in the text box
5. Choose between:
   - **"Add single comment"**: Posts immediately
   - **"Start a review"**: Saves comment for a formal review

**For multi-line comments:**

> 1. Click and drag from the starting line number to the ending line number
> 2. This will select multiple lines for your comment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click and drag from the starting line number to the ending line number
2. Click the [+] sign next to the last line number in the series.  This will select multiple lines for your comment
```

3. Add your comment and submit

### Making Code Suggestions

**To suggest specific code changes:**

1. Make a line-specific comment as above

> 2. Click the suggestion icon (📝) in the comment toolbar

Reviewer: Don't want to add emoji, as it might be confusing, and it's not quite the same

```suggestion
2. Click the suggestion icon in the comment toolbar (the document icon with a + and -)
```

3. GitHub will pre-populate with the existing code
4. Edit the code to show your suggested changes
5. Add explanation text above or below the suggestion block
6. Submit the comment

**Example suggestion format:**

```suggestion
// Your improved code here
const userName = user.name || 'Anonymous';
```

### Conducting a Formal Review

**To start a comprehensive review:**

1. Go to "Files changed" tab
2. Add line-specific comments as needed, choosing "Start a review"
3. When finished reviewing all files, click "Review changes" (top right)
4. Choose your review type:
   - **Comment**: General feedback without approval status
   - **Approve**: Approve the changes for merging
   - **Request changes**: Block merging until issues are addressed
5. Add an overall review summary
6. Click "Submit review"

### Comment Features and Options

#### Reactions

- Click the emoji icon on any comment to add reactions

> - Common reactions: 👍 👎 😄 🎉 😕 ❤️ 🚀 👀

Reviewer: Sadly, that's the entire list...
```suggestion
- Possible reactions: 👍 👎 😄 🎉 😕 ❤️ 🚀 👀
```

#### Editing Comments

- Click the "..." menu on your own comments
- Select "Edit" to modify
- Comments show "edited" indicator after changes

#### Resolving Conversations

> - Click "Resolve conversation" on comment threads once issues are addressed
> - Helps track which feedback has been handled

Reviewer: This brings up a point that @qquigley raised in #851 [here](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/issues/851#issuecomment-2755686206).

> In a recent discussion, the question of "who decides when a conversation is closed?" came up. Should it be the person who left the comment, or the person who is contributing to the part of the spec that's being reviewed? Should it be a vote? That's a question I think we need definitively answered.

I think we need to give a bit more context here.  Thus:

```suggestion
- Click "Resolve conversation" on comment threads once issues are addressed
  - Typically, the resolution is a partnership between the PR author and the comment author.  The conversation should be resolved by the comment author upon review.  However, the PR author has the license to close the conversation without resolution if they provide sufficient context and/or the comment author does not promptly provide review.
- Helps track which feedback has been handled
```
